---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2026-05-25 12:20:29 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Gastrointestinal germinal center B cell depletion and reduction in IgA+ plasma cells in HIV-1 infection</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Human immunity relies on the coordinated responses of many cellular subsets and functional states. Inter-individual variations in cellular composition and communication could thus potentially alter host protection. Here, we explore this hypothesis by applying single-cell RNA-sequencing to examine viral responses among the dendritic cells (DCs) of three elite controllers (ECs) of HIV-1 infection. To overcome the potentially confounding effects of donor-to-donor variability, we present a generally applicable computational framework for identifying reproducible patterns in gene expression across donors who share a unifying classification. Applying it, we discover a highly functional antiviral DC state in ECs whose fractional abundance after in vitro exposure to HIV-1 correlates with higher CD4+ T cell counts and lower HIV-1 viral loads, and that effectively primes polyfunctional T cell responses in vitro. By integrating information from existing genomic databases into our reproducibility-based analysis, we identify and validate select immunomodulators that increase the fractional abundance of this state in primary peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy individuals in vitro. Overall, our results demonstrate how single-cell approaches can reveal previously unappreciated, yet important, immune behaviors and empower rational frameworks for modulating systems-level immune responses that may prove therapeutically and prophylactically useful.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8bdaaa8164fd46945764987c98bec307fda098c2" target='_blank'>A Reproducibility-Based Computational Framework Identifies an Inducible, Enhanced Antiviral State in Dendritic Cells from HIV-1 Elite Controllers</a></td>
          <td>
            E. Martín-Gayo, Michael Cole, Kellie E. Kolb, Zhengyu Ouyang, Jacqueline Cronin, S. Kazer, J. Ordovas-Montañes, M. Lichterfeld, B. Walker, N. Yosef, A. Shalek, Xu G. Yu
          </td>
          <td>2018-01-29</td>
          <td>Genome Biology</td>
          <td>48</td>
          <td>159</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We and others have reported evidence of T cell exhaustion in children with perinatal HIV with increased expression of inhibitory receptors PD-1, CD160, and TIM-3, but there is limited data on the virologic functional consequences of this immune exhaustion. We address this by using an immune database from Kenyan children with perinatal HIV and unexposed controls. We computationally integrate T cell profiles of differentiation, activation and exhaustion in an agent-based model (ABM) to predict how T cell exhaustion impacts viral control following HIV exposure in vitro. Our ABM includes macrophages, CD4 and CD8 T cells, cytokines, and HIV. Model mechanisms include viral dynamics, macrophage activation, T cell activation and proliferation, cytotoxic T cell killing, and cytokine/HIV diffusion and degradation. Participants are grouped by HIV plasma viremia and by age, less than 5 years or 5-18 years. Our findings indicate that cells from virally active participants, who have the highest levels of exhaustion, have lower predicted viral concentrations and infected cells compared to other participant groups during new infection. However, this coincides with higher cell death, suggesting that short-term viral control is associated with excessive inflammation, which could be detrimental long-term. Cells from virally suppressed participants older than 5 years can maintain lower viral concentrations while limiting cell death, reflecting a more sustainable short-term immune response. In virally suppressed children younger than 5 years, immune response patterns strongly resemble the age-matched healthy control group, suggesting early viral suppression may preserve antiviral immune responses. Our model predicts unique patterns of cell death for each participant group, with CD8 T cell death being dominant in virally active groups and CD4 T cell and macrophage death being dominant in healthy and virally suppressed groups. Finally, exhausted CD8 T cells are predicted to contribute significantly to CD8 T cell killing, proliferation, and activation in the virally active group, indicating partially functional CD8 T cells can still contribute to short-term viral control. Our analysis functionally integrates participant-specific immunophenotypic data to allow quantification of the extent, mechanisms, and impact of immune dysfunction in perinatal HIV and could inform pediatric HIV remission and cure strategies. Author Summary Cytotoxic CD8+ T cells are vital for our ability to kill infected cells. However, chronic stimulation of CD8+ T cells can result in T cell exhaustion, leading to cellular dysfunction and reduced ability to fight infections. Here we ask: What impact does CD8+ T cell exhaustion have on the ability to control HIV replication over the short term? We answer this using a computational model, anchored in experimental data from children with perinatal HIV. We use participant-specific data on dozens of immune markers that characterize the state of their immune system. We carefully map these markers to known immune cell functions and use our model to predict how immune cells with these participant-specific markers would respond to HIV infection. Our results suggest that earlier viral suppression can lead to better immune function in children with perinatal HIV. Our findings also suggest that exhausted CD8+ T cells could still contribute to fighting HIV infection, but only if there are enough of them to compensate for their reduced functionality. Our work uses computational models to put valuable participant-specific data into context, allowing us to predict short-term infection outcomes and better understand immune function in children with perinatal HIV.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/feef85b43caeefacd242e0fed705966cf8ef6533" target='_blank'>Partially-functional exhausted CD8+ T cells can contribute to short-term viral suppression: a computational prediction for children with perinatal HIV</a></td>
          <td>
            Alexis Hoerter, Alexa Petrucciani, Fatma Marshed, Mussa Mwamzuka, A. Ahmed, Alka Khaitan, Elsje Pienaar
          </td>
          <td>2025-09-20</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Viruses are a constant threat to global health as highlighted by the current COVID-19 pandemic. Currently, lack of data underlying how the human host interacts with viruses, including the SARS-CoV-2 virus, limits effective therapeutic intervention. We introduce Viral-Track, a computational method that globally scans unmapped single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data for the presence of viral RNA, enabling transcriptional cell sorting of infected versus bystander cells. We demonstrate the sensitivity and specificity of Viral-Track to systematically detect viruses from multiple models of infection, including hepatitis B virus, in an unsupervised manner. Applying Viral-Track to bronchoalveloar-lavage samples from severe and mild COVID-19 patients reveals a dramatic impact of the virus on the immune system of severe patients compared to mild cases. Viral-Track detects an unexpected co-infection of the human metapneumovirus, present mainly in monocytes perturbed in type-I interferon (IFN)-signaling. Viral-Track provides a robust technology for dissecting the mechanisms of viral-infection and pathology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e0c45240450f614dab426bf68728c0eabd2dfcea" target='_blank'>Host-Viral Infection Maps Reveal Signatures of Severe COVID-19 Patients</a></td>
          <td>
            Pierre Bost, A. Giladi, Yang Liu, Yanis Bendjelal, Gang Xu, Eyal David, R. Blecher-Gonen, Merav Cohen, Chiara Medaglia, Hanjie Li, A. Deczkowska, Shuye Zhang, Benno Schwikowski, Zheng Zhang, I. Amit
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-08</td>
          <td>Cell</td>
          <td>444</td>
          <td>107</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/24b72639d6e59b797a501444b04af3436df03cac" target='_blank'>Intracellular ISG-virus interactions determine viral infection severity and persistence.</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Bouchnita, V. Volpert
          </td>
          <td>2025-09-12</td>
          <td>Journal of theoretical biology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>17</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells are a group of unconventional T cells that mainly recognize bacterial vitamin B metabolites presented on MHC-related protein 1 (MR1). MAIT cells have been shown to play an important role in controlling bacterial infection and in responding to viral infections. Furthermore, MAIT cells have been implicated in different chronic inflammatory diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease and multiple sclerosis. Despite their involvement in different physiological and pathological processes, a deeper understanding of MAIT cells is still lacking. Arguably, this can be attributed to the difficulty of quantifying and measuring MAIT cells in different biological samples which is commonly done using flow cytometry-based methods and single-cell-based RNA sequencing techniques. These methods mostly require fresh samples which are difficult to obtain, especially from tissues, have low to medium throughput, and are costly and labor-intensive. To address these limitations, we developed sequence-to-MAIT (Seq2MAIT) which is a transformer-based deep neural network capable of identifying MAIT cells in bulk TCR-sequencing datasets, enabling the quantification of MAIT cells from any biological materials where human DNA is available. Benchmarking Seq2MAIT across different test datasets showed an average area-under-the-receiver-operator-curve (AU[ROC]) >0.80. In conclusion, Seq2MAIT is a novel, economical, and scalable method for identifying and quantifying MAIT cells in virtually any biological sample.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7407ca7605f24e11c1fc4335ba413bb4681f30b9" target='_blank'>Seq2MAIT: A Novel Deep Learning Framework for Identifying Mucosal Associated Invariant T (MAIT) Cells</a></td>
          <td>
            H. ElAbd, Rachel Byron, Steven Woodhouse, Brittney Robinett, Joe Sulc, A. Franke, M. Pesesky, Wenyu Zhou, Haiyin Chen-Harris, Bryan Howie, Ruth Taniguchi, Harlan S. Robins
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-14</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>15</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Crohn’s disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease characterized by relapsing-remitting episodes and a progressive course that often leads to bowel damage and disability. While the etiology of CD is multifactorial, involving genetic, environmental, and immunological factors, recent studies have highlighted the role of food antigens and the gut microbiome in its pathogenesis. This paper explores the immunological underpinnings of CD, with a focus on the elevated levels of serum immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) and their correlation with disease severity and therapeutic response. We review clinical trials and case studies that demonstrate the potential of IgG4-guided exclusion diets and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) therapy in ameliorating CD symptoms and inflammation. Additionally, we delve into advancements in machine learning (ML) models that utilize fecal microbiome data, offering promising diagnostic tools for distinguishing CD from ulcerative colitis and non-IBD conditions. The integration of ML in endoscopy and predictive models for therapy complications signifies a leap toward precision medicine in IBD management. This paper underscores the necessity for a nuanced understanding of CD’s immunological aspects and the innovative application of ML in its diagnosis and treatment, paving the way for personalized therapeutic strategies and improved patient outcomes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/055112edeed8cabf0f63b42f70c136ac2ff7e784" target='_blank'>IgG4 unveiled: navigating the interplay with Crohn’s disease – from immunology insights to machine learning</a></td>
          <td>
            Anmol Mohan, Urooj Ghaffar, Ahmad Basharat, G. Nawaz, R. R. Khenhrani, Rimsha, Guillermo de Jesus Aguirre Vera, P. Lal, Dev Tanush, M. Khan, N. Duseja, Syeda Laiba Sherazi, Vikash, Vikash Kumar, D. Nanavaty
          </td>
          <td>2025-07-24</td>
          <td>Annals of Medicine and Surgery</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>15</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Vaccines are among the most cost-effective public health interventions for preventing infection-induced morbidity and mortality, yet much remains to be learned regarding the mechanisms by which vaccines protect. Systems immunology combines traditional immunology with modern ‘omic profiling techniques and computational modeling to promote rapid and transformative advances in vaccinology and vaccine discovery. The NIH/NIAID Human Immunology Project Consortium (HIPC) has leveraged systems immunology approaches to identify molecular signatures associated with the immunogenicity of many vaccines. However, comparative analyses have been limited by the distributed nature of some data, potential batch effects across studies, and the absence of multiple relevant studies from non-HIPC groups in ImmPort . To support comparative analyses across different vaccines, we have created the Immune Signatures Data Resource, a compendium of standardized systems vaccinology datasets. This data resource is available through ImmuneSpace , along with code to reproduce the processing and batch normalization starting from the underlying study data in ImmPort and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). The current release comprises 1405 participants from 53 cohorts profiling the response to 24 different vaccines. This novel systems vaccinology data release represents a valuable resource for comparative and meta-analyses that will accelerate our understanding of mechanisms underlying vaccine responses. Measurement(s) Transcriptomics • Hemagglutination Inhibition Assay • IgG IgM IgA Total Measurement • Virus-neutralizing Antibody • ELISA Technology Type(s) Microarray • RNA sequencing • Hemagglutination Inhibition Assay • ELISA • Microneutralization Assay • serum neutralization of viral infectivity assay Sample Characteristic - Organism Homo sapiens">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b20d2a886a2819555f1b29519193323bf6535394" target='_blank'>The Immune Signatures data resource, a compendium of systems vaccinology datasets</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Diray-Arce, Helen E. R. Miller, E. Henrich, B. Gerritsen, Matthew P. Mulè, S. Fourati, Jeremy P. Gygi, T. Hagan, Lewis E. Tomalin, D. Rychkov, Dmitri Kazmin, Daniel G. Chawla, Hailong Meng, P. Dunn, John Campbell, , Alison Deckhut-Augustine, R. Gottardo, Elias K. Haddad, D. Hafler, Eva Harris, D. Farber, Ofer Levy, J. McElrath, R. Montgomery, Bjoern Peters, Adeeb Rahman, E. Reed, N. Rouphael, A. Fernández-Sesma, A. Sette, Ken Stuart, A. Togias, John S. Tsang, M. Sarwal, John S. Tsang, Ofer Levy, B. Pulendran, R. Sékaly, A. Floratos, R. Gottardo, S. Kleinstein, M. Suárez-Fariñas
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-20</td>
          <td>Scientific Data</td>
          <td>27</td>
          <td>107</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Defining physiology and methods to measure biological mechanisms is essential. Extensive datasets such as RNA sequencing are used with little analysis of the knowledge gained from the various methodologies. Within this work, we have processed publicly available NCBI RNAseq datasets using a combination of bioinformatics tools for the largest physiological organ, the skin. In many datasets, we identify the quality of the sample, human transcript mapping, the sex of each sample, foreign RNA from bacteria/viruses/protists, and the presence of B/T-cell immune repertoire. Processing 8,274 samples from 132 different experiments for skin samples identifies common flora of skin with elevation of protists (such as Leishmania), bacteria (Staphylococcus, Cutibacterium acnes), and viruses (HSV, HPV) that may be involved in physiological differences. We observed samples with the Heilongjiang tick virus, Human T-cell Leukemia Virus Type I, and Equine Infectious Anemia Virus that likely play pathological roles in physiology. Integrating the various biomarkers identified five ideal datasets for skin pathologies that elucidated a novel correlation between the normal skin flora bacterium Bacillus megaterium with MHC complex regulation and the immune repertoire clonal expansion, particularly in patients with hidradenitis suppurativa. Finally, we show that in multiple independent experiments, biological sex is associated with multiple sex chromosome gene differences, highlighting the importance of future work in studying sex differences in skin. Data integrations and multidimensional data mapping are critical for physiological omics advancements, and this work highlights the exciting ability to apply these tools to skin physiology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/21d7405dc4848bad01933fa8e058f89b35b57024" target='_blank'>From Castaways to Discoveries: Unveiling Treasures in Skin RNAseq Using a Novel Multidimensional Data Processing Workflow Including Infection-Host Dynamics.</a></td>
          <td>
            Disha Bhargava, Alec Labadie, Rebecca L Hanson-Rios-Stutz, Austin Goodyke, Ella M Moses, Akansha S. Das, Sophie Vanderweele, Janelle V Lemon, Taylor W Cook, David Pearson, J. Redinger, Adam J Caulfield, Rosemary Olivero, K. Foster, Kurt Ashack, S. Rajasekaran, Caleb P. Bupp, Timothy J. Triche, Connie M Krawczyk, Dave W. Chesla, Matthew D Sims, Nicholas L. Hartog, Jeremy W. Prokop
          </td>
          <td>2025-03-12</td>
          <td>Physiological genomics</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Common Variable Immunodeficiency (CVID) is a heterogeneous disorder characterized by impaired antibody production and recurrent infections. In this study we investigated the clinical and immunological features of CVID in Indian patients and develops a machine learning model for predicting disease severity. We retrospectively analyzed 150 patients diagnosed with CVID over a decade at a tertiary care center in India. The median age of diagnosis was 18 years, with a male predominance (62%). The majority of patients (66.6%) had a severe phenotype, with recurrent respiratory tract infections being the most common clinical manifestation (84.2%). Gastrointestinal complications were observed in 45% of patients, while autoimmune manifestations were seen in 21%. All patients exhibited hypogammaglobulinemia. IgA levels varied, with 7.8% normal and 14.5% undetectable. IgM levels were decreased in 85.5% of patients. B-cell analysis revealed 64.4% had reduced class-switched memory B cells, with 21.7% showing very low levels. Nine adult patients presented with late-onset combined immunodeficiency. Genetic testing, performed on 52 patients, identified underlying monogenic causes in 29 pediatric and 15 adult patients. LRBA deficiency was the most common genetic defect, found in seven pediatric and three adult patients. We developed a novel machine learning-based severity prediction model for CVID patients, utilizing readily available lymphocyte subsets, class-switched memory B cell counts, and serum immunoglobulin levels to provide an accessible and robust tool for predicting disease severity using Ameratunga’s clinical severity score. Random Forest outperformed other models across all metrics, achieving an accuracy of 0.853 (95% CI: 0.840–0.866). Feature importance analysis across all models identified Th-Tc ratio, CD19, and IgM levels as the most influential predictors for severity prediction. Our study highlights the diverse clinical and immunological features of CVID in Indian patients, emphasizing the need for early diagnosis and individualized management strategies. The machine learning model developed using commonly available immune parameters provide a robust tool for predicting disease severity, potentially guiding treatment strategies to improve patient outcomes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/403ca96e6156ff1110b0edf1c3743f1fcb8648b4" target='_blank'>Common Variable Immunodeficiency Disorder: A Decade of Insights from a Cohort of 150 Patients in India and the Use of Machine Learning Algorithms to Predict Severity</a></td>
          <td>
            U. Bargir, P. Setia, M. Desai, C. S, A. Dalvi, Shweta Shinde, Maya Gupta, Neha Jodhawat, Amrutha Jose, Mayuri Goriwale, R. Yadav, Disha Vedpathak, Lavina Temkar, S. Shabrish, Gouri P. Hule, V. Gowri, Prasad Taur, A. Athavale, Farah Jijina, Shobna Bhatia, Akash Shukla, M. Kalra, M. Sivasankaran, S. Balaji, Punit Jain, Sujata Sharma, H. Gangadharan, G. Narula, Ratna A. Sharma, Pranoti Kini, Mamta Mangalani, Abhishek Zanwar, H. Chaudhary, Narendra Chaudhary, Ujjawal Khurana, Ashish Bavdekar, G. Subramaniam, Revathi Raj, Subhaprakash Saniyal, Nitin Shah, Tehsin A. Petiwala, Prawin Kumar, Venkatesh Pai, S. Bhattad, Abhinav Sengupta, Manish Soneja, Dayanand Upase, A. Ganapule, Indrani Talukdar, M. Madkaikar
          </td>
          <td>2025-08-26</td>
          <td>Journal of Clinical Immunology</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>29</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Recent developments in sequencing technologies, the computer and data sciences, as well as increasingly high-throughput immunological measurements have made it possible to derive holistic views on pathophysiological processes of disease and treatment effects directly in humans. We and others have illustrated that incredibly predictive data for immune cell function can be generated by single cell multi-omics (SCMO) technologies and that these technologies are perfectly suited to dissect pathophysiological processes in a new disease such as COVID-19, triggered by SARS-CoV-2 infection. Systems level interrogation not only revealed the different disease endotypes, highlighted the differential dynamics in context of disease severity, and pointed towards global immune deviation across the different arms of the immune system, but was already instrumental to better define long COVID phenotypes, suggest promising biomarkers for disease and therapy outcome predictions and explains treatment responses for the widely used corticosteroids. As we identified SCMO to be the most informative technologies in the vest to better understand COVID-19, we propose to routinely include such single cell level analysis in all future clinical trials and cohorts addressing diseases with an immunological component.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/01a952e012e1800bbd1317b1a754da406bbe7cda" target='_blank'>Systems analysis of human innate immunity in COVID-19</a></td>
          <td>
            Sophie Müller, J. Schultze
          </td>
          <td>2023-05-01</td>
          <td>Seminars in Immunology</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>95</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>