---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-06 09:13:35 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Human SARS-CoV-2 challenge uncovers local and systemic response dynamics</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6915bd29ca34497df4feadb2c077619bf2531fcf" target='_blank'>Recognizing SARS-CoV-2 infection of nasopharyngeal tissue at the single-cell level by machine learning method.</a></td>
          <td>
            YuSheng Bao, Qinglan Ma, Lei Chen, Kaiyan Feng, Wei Guo, Tao Huang, Yudong Cai
          </td>
          <td>2024-12-18</td>
          <td>Molecular immunology</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>41</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/01a952e012e1800bbd1317b1a754da406bbe7cda" target='_blank'>Systems analysis of human innate immunity in COVID-19</a></td>
          <td>
            Sophie Müller, J. Schultze
          </td>
          <td>2023-05-01</td>
          <td>Seminars in Immunology</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>93</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/42062b7298efe0a9a4e5ce471bd6c8d7131d6cda" target='_blank'>Host-Viral Infection Maps Reveal Signatures of Severe COVID-19 Patients</a></td>
          <td>
            Pierre Bost, Amir Giladi, Yang Liu, Yanis Bendjelal, Gang Xu, Eyal David, Ronnie Blecher-Gonen, Merav Cohen, Chiara Medaglia, Hanjie Li, A. Deczkowska, Shuye Zhang, B. Schwikowski, Zheng Zhang, I. Amit
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-08</td>
          <td>Cell</td>
          <td>413</td>
          <td>101</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 reawakened the need to rapidly understand the molecular etiologies, pandemic potential, and prospective treatments of infectious agents. The lack of existing data on SARS-CoV-2 hampered early attempts to treat severe forms of COVID-19 during the pandemic. This study coupled existing transcriptomic data from SARS-CoV-1 lung infection animal studies with crowdsourcing statistical approaches to derive temporal meta-signatures of host responses during early viral accumulation and subsequent clearance stages. Unsupervised and supervised machine learning approaches identified top dysregulated genes and potential biomarkers (e.g., CXCL10, BEX2, and ADM). Temporal meta-signatures revealed distinct gene expression programs with biological implications to a series of host responses underlying sustained Cxcl10 expression and Stat signaling. Cell cycle switched from G1/G0 phase genes, early in infection, to a G2/M gene signature during late infection that correlated with the enrichment of DNA Damage Response and Repair genes. The SARS-CoV-1 meta-signatures were shown to closely emulate human SARS-CoV-2 host responses from emerging RNAseq, single cell and proteomics data with early monocyte-macrophage activation followed by lymphocyte proliferation. The circulatory hormone adrenomedullin was observed as maximally elevated in elderly patients that died from COVID-19. Stage-specific correlations to compounds with potential to treat COVID-19 and future coronavirus infections were in part validated by a subset of twenty-four that are in clinical trials to treat COVID-19. This study represents a roadmap to leverage existing data in the public domain to derive novel molecular and biological insights and potential treatments to emerging human pathogens. The data from this study is available in an interactive portal (http://18.222.95.219:8047).">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a3b026cc248aa7485ddd9859d1fc0418f2446955" target='_blank'>Crowdsourcing temporal transcriptomic coronavirus host infection data: Resources, guide, and novel insights</a></td>
          <td>
            James Flynn, Mehdi Ahmadi, Chase McFarland, Michael Kubal, Mark Taylor, Zhang Cheng, Enrique C. Torchia, M. Edwards
          </td>
          <td>2023-08-08</td>
          <td>Biology Methods & Protocols</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/959f15f7e19b8ab280c3b456f18d0c9d427d3b8f" target='_blank'>An interactive single cell web portal identifies gene and cell networks in COVID-19 host responses</a></td>
          <td>
            Kang Jin, Eric E. Bardes, Alexis Mitelpunkt, Jake Y. Wang, Surbhi Bhatnagar, Soma Sengupta, D. P. Krummel, M. Rothenberg, B. Aronow
          </td>
          <td>2021-09-10</td>
          <td>iScience</td>
          <td>14</td>
          <td>122</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Background: Adaptive Biotechnologies has built an immune medicine platform based on the sequencing of immune receptors (immunoglobulins, B-cell receptors [BCRs] and T-cell receptors [TCRs]) with myriad applications in health and disease. This broad platform technology can be used to assess the diversity of the cellular adaptive immune system and track disease-associated TCRs and BCRs during the course of infection. The SARS-CoV-2 virus is spreading rapidly throughout the world, causing significant morbidity and mortality. Researchers, governments, and biotechnology companies are mobilizing to develop and distribute diagnostic and therapeutic alternatives to try to curb this global pandemic. Methods: In collaboration with our partners LabCorp/Covance, Adaptive Biotechnologies has opened the ImmuneRACE study to prospectively collect samples from individuals who have been infected with SARS-CoV-2, who have recovered from SARS-CoV-2 infection, or who have been exposed to someone infected with SARS-CoV-2. Discussion: We believe that the information contained within the genetics of the adaptive immune response to SARS-CoV-2 can improve our understanding of the immunobiology of this devasting virus and may inform efforts to improve current diagnostic and therapeutic approaches. To facilitate scientific and clinical advancement in the fight against COVID-19, the TCR sequence data resulting from the primary aims of this study will be made publicly available to scientists and researchers across the globe, an effort made possible through a collaboration with Microsoft. Trial registration: ImmunoRACE is registered with the US National Institutes of Health and can be accessed at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04494893).">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c5c2090f010672adda7a0ba74b21afdb33ac1a26" target='_blank'>The ImmuneRACE Study: A Prospective Multicohort Study of Immune Response Action to COVID-19 Events with the ImmuneCODEâ¢ Open Access Database</a></td>
          <td>
            J. N. Dines, T. Manley, E. Svejnoha, H. Simmons, R. Taniguchi, M. Klinger, L. Baldo, H. Robins
          </td>
          <td>2020-08-21</td>
          <td>medRxiv</td>
          <td>16</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Advances in our understanding of the nature of the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection, and how this varies within and between individuals, is important in efforts to develop targeted therapies and precision medicine approaches. Here we present a database for the COvid-19 Multi-omics Blood ATlas (COMBAT) project, COMBATdb (https://db.combat.ox.ac.uk). This enables exploration of multi-modal datasets arising from profiling of patients with different severities of illness admitted to hospital in the first phase of the pandemic in the UK prior to vaccination, compared with community cases, healthy controls, and patients with all-cause sepsis and influenza. These data include whole blood transcriptomics, plasma proteomics, epigenomics, single-cell multi-omics, immune repertoire sequencing, flow and mass cytometry, and cohort metadata. COMBATdb provides access to the processed data in a well-defined framework of samples, cell types and genes/proteins that allows exploration across the assayed modalities, with functionality including browse, search, download, calculation and visualisation via shiny apps. This advances the ability of users to leverage COMBAT datasets to understand the pathogenesis of COVID-19, and the nature of specific and shared features with other infectious diseases.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b95849445dbe205052f5a8f658b659134ee722f3" target='_blank'>COMBATdb: a database for the COVID-19 Multi-Omics Blood ATlas</a></td>
          <td>
            Dapeng Wang, Vinod Kumar, K. Burnham, A. Mentzer, B. Marsden, J. Knight
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-10</td>
          <td>Nucleic Acids Research</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>71</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Simple Summary It is known that COVID-19 causes dynamic changes in the immune system. At different stages of the course of COVID-19, the immune cells may exhibit different patterns, which have not been fully uncovered. In this study, a machine-learning-based method was designed to deeply analyze the scRNA-seq data of three types of immune cells from patients with COVID-19, including B cells, T cells, and myeloid cells. Four levels of COVID-19 severity/outcome were involved for each cell type. As a result, several essential genes were obtained, and some of them could be confirmed to be related to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Abstract As COVID-19 develops, dynamic changes occur in the patient’s immune system. Changes in molecular levels in different immune cells can reflect the course of COVID-19. This study aims to uncover the molecular characteristics of different immune cell subpopulations at different stages of COVID-19. We designed a machine learning workflow to analyze scRNA-seq data of three immune cell types (B, T, and myeloid cells) in four levels of COVID-19 severity/outcome. The datasets for three cell types included 403,700 B-cell, 634,595 T-cell, and 346,547 myeloid cell samples. Each cell subtype was divided into four groups, control, convalescence, progression mild/moderate, and progression severe/critical, and each immune cell contained 27,943 gene features. A feature analysis procedure was applied to the data of each cell type. Irrelevant features were first excluded according to their relevance to the target variable measured by mutual information. Then, four ranking algorithms (last absolute shrinkage and selection operator, light gradient boosting machine, Monte Carlo feature selection, and max-relevance and min-redundancy) were adopted to analyze the remaining features, resulting in four feature lists. These lists were fed into the incremental feature selection, incorporating three classification algorithms (decision tree, k-nearest neighbor, and random forest) to extract key gene features and construct classifiers with superior performance. The results confirmed that genes such as PFN1, RPS26, and FTH1 played important roles in SARS-CoV-2 infection. These findings provide a useful reference for the understanding of the ongoing effect of COVID-19 development on the immune system.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2dde4a9a1829d30b2f8ec8592b82f892c43656bc" target='_blank'>Identification of Gene Markers Associated with COVID-19 Severity and Recovery in Different Immune Cell Subtypes</a></td>
          <td>
            Ji Ren, Qian Gao, Xiao-Chao Zhou, Lei Chen, Wei Guo, Kai-Yan Feng, Lin Lu, Tao Huang, Yunpeng Cai
          </td>
          <td>2023-07-01</td>
          <td>Biology</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>41</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Numerous studies have provided single-cell transcriptome profiles of host responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Critically lacking however is a datamine that allows users to compare and explore cell profiles to gain insights and develop new hypotheses. To accomplish this, we harmonized datasets from COVID-19 and other control condition blood, bronchoalveolar lavage, and tissue samples, and derived a compendium of gene signature modules per cell type, subtype, clinical condition, and compartment. We demonstrate approaches to probe these via a new interactive web portal (http://toppcell.cchmc.org/ COVID-19). As examples, we develop three hypotheses: (1) a multicellular signaling cascade among alternatively differentiated monocyte-derived macrophages whose tasks include T cell recruitment and activation; (2) novel platelet subtypes with drastically modulated expression of genes responsible for adhesion, coagulation and thrombosis; and (3) a multilineage cell activator network able to drive extrafollicular B maturation via an ensemble of genes strongly associated with risk for developing post-viral autoimmunity.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4263511296e9e6a1c4f1a08e14d86d24e349849e" target='_blank'>Implicating Gene and Cell Networks Responsible for Differential COVID-19 Host Responses via an Interactive Single Cell Web Portal</a></td>
          <td>
            Kang Jin, Eric E. Bardes, Alexis Mitelpunkt, Jake Y. Wang, Surbhi Bhatnagar, S. Sengupta, D. P. Krummel, M. Rothenberg, B. Aronow
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-07</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>122</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The highly contagious SARS-CoV-2 and its associated disease (COVID-19) are a threat to global public health and economies. To develop effective treatments for COVID-19, we must understand the host cell types, cell states and regulators associated with infection and pathogenesis such as dysregulated transcription factors (TFs) and surface proteins, including signalling receptors. To link cell surface proteins with TFs, we recently developed SPaRTAN (Single-cell Proteomic and RNA-based Transcription factor Activity Network) by integrating parallel single-cell proteomic and transcriptomic data based on Cellular Indexing of Transcriptomes and Epitopes by sequencing (CITE-seq) and gene cis-regulatory information. We apply SPaRTAN to CITE-seq datasets from patients with varying degrees of COVID-19 severity and healthy controls to identify the associations between surface proteins and TFs in host immune cells. Here, we present COVID-19db of Immune Cell States (https://covid19db.streamlit.app/), a web server containing cell surface protein expression, SPaRTAN-inferred TF activities, and their associations with major host immune cell types. The data include four high-quality COVID-19 CITE-seq datasets with a toolset for userfriendly data analysis and visualization. We provide interactive surface protein and TF visualizations across major immune cell types for each dataset, allowing comparison between various patient severity groups for the discovery of potential therapeutic targets and diagnostic biomarkers.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/59a0da2761871e64931a9a4d3afe50105a9e5d84" target='_blank'>COVID-19db linkage maps of cell surface proteins and transcription factors in immune cells</a></td>
          <td>
            Koushul Ramjattun, Xiaojun Ma, Shou-Jiang Gao, Harinder Singh, H. Osmanbeyoglu
          </td>
          <td>2023-03-06</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>