---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-12-15 09:24:25 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Microglia Morphological Response to Mesenchymal Stromal Cell Extracellular Vesicles Demonstrates EV Therapeutic Potential for Modulating Neuroinflammation</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are essential for host–pathogen interactions, mediating processes such as immune modulation and pathogen survival. Pathogen‐derived EVs hold significant diagnostic potential because of their unique cargo, offering a wealth of potential biomarkers. In this review, we first discuss the roles of EVs derived from various pathogens in host–pathogen interactions and summarize the latest advancements in pathogen detection based on EVs. Then, we highlight innovative strategies, including novel aggregate materials and machine learning approaches, for enhancing EV detection and analysis. Finally, we discuss challenges in the field and future directions for advancing EV‐based diagnostics, aiming to translate these insights into clinical applications.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3c698d8011c83641d9ae6bee8a11774f25a76217" target='_blank'>Integrating Aggregate Materials and Machine Learning Algorithms: Advancing Detection of Pathogen‐Derived Extracellular Vesicles</a></td>
          <td>
            Lihan Lai, Yun Su, Cong Hu, Zehong Peng, W. Xue, L. Dong, Tony Y. Hu
          </td>
          <td>2025-03-27</td>
          <td>Aggregate</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c88cd36f22e17dbb5db45dc35a55979c21dbafd6" target='_blank'>EV-origin: Enumerating the tissue-cellular origin of circulating extracellular vesicles using exLR profile</a></td>
          <td>
            Yuchen Li, Xigan He, Qin Li, Hongyan Lai, He-Yun Zhang, Z. Hu, Yan Li, Shenglin Huang
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-14</td>
          <td>Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal</td>
          <td>145</td>
          <td>58</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Extracellular vesicle (EV) research increasingly demands for quantitative characterisation at the single vesicle level to address heterogeneity and complexity of EV subpopulations. Emerging, commercialised technologies for single EV analysis based on, for example, imaging flow cytometry or imaging after capture on chips generally require dedicated instrumentation and proprietary software not readily accessible to every lab. This limits their implementation for routine EV characterisation in the rapidly growing EV field. We and others have shown that single vesicles can be detected as light diffraction limited fluorescent spots using standard confocal and widefield fluorescence microscopes. Advancing this simple strategy into a process for routine EV quantitation, we developed ‘EVAnalyzer’, an ImageJ/Fiji (Fiji is just ImageJ) plugin for automated, quantitative single vesicle analysis from imaging data. Using EVAnalyzer, we established a robust protocol for capture, (immuno‐)labelling and fluorescent imaging of EVs. To exemplify the application scope, the process was optimised and systematically tested for (i) quantification of EV subpopulations, (ii) validation of EV labelling reagents, (iii) in situ determination of antibody specificity, sensitivity and species cross‐reactivity for EV markers and (iv) optimisation of genetic EV engineering. Additionally, we show that the process can be applied to synthetic nanoparticles, allowing to determine siRNA encapsulation efficiencies of lipid‐based nanoparticles (LNPs) and protein loading of SiO2 nanoparticles. EVAnalyzer further provides a pipeline for automated quantification of cell uptake at the single cell–single vesicle level, thereby enabling high content EV cell uptake assays and plate‐based screens. Notably, the entire procedure from sample preparation to the final data output is entirely based on standard reagents, materials, laboratory equipment and open access software. In summary, we show that EVAnalyzer enables rigorous characterisation of EVs with generally accessible tools. Since we further provide the plugin as open‐source code, we expect EVAnalyzer to not only be a resource of immediate impact, but an open innovation platform for the EV and nanoparticle research communities.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ee63636048b60cb2e0dc234df0303822d4fb1f68" target='_blank'>EVAnalyzer: High content imaging for rigorous characterisation of single extracellular vesicles using standard laboratory equipment and a new open‐source ImageJ/Fiji plugin</a></td>
          <td>
            Melanie Schürz, Joachim Danmayr, Maria Jaritsch, E. Klinglmayr, Heloisa Melo Benirschke, C. Matea, Patrick Zimmerebner, Jakob Rauter, Martin Wolf, F. G. Gomes, Zdenek Kratochvil, Z. Heger, Andrew Miller, T. Heuser, Vesna Stanojlovic, Jana Kiefer, Tanja Plank, Litty Johnson, M. Himly, C. Blöchl, C. Huber, Martin Hintersteiner, Nicole C Meisner-Kober
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-27</td>
          <td>Journal of Extracellular Vesicles</td>
          <td>24</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2dbe137d600788d9cf616b6312add987351f83ed" target='_blank'>EVpedia: A community web resource for prokaryotic and eukaryotic extracellular vesicles research.</a></td>
          <td>
            Dae-Kyum Kim, Jaewook Lee, Richard J. Simpson, J. Lötvall, Y. Gho
          </td>
          <td>2015-04-01</td>
          <td>Seminars in cell & developmental biology</td>
          <td>114</td>
          <td>93</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Morphology of extracellular vesicles (EVs) from cerebrospinal fluid is an important property that could uncover brain-related conditions. However, native morphology could get distorted during imaging, such as with atomic force microscopy (AFM) in air, which enables relatively simple visualisation and automated morphology assessment. Therefore, we compared 24 different preparation methods for the same sample of EVs according to the resulting size, height, aspect ratio and shape distributions obtained from the AFM images. We defined 5 different shape categories (round, flat, concave, single-lobed, and multilobed) and neglected other features that did not fit in either category and were considered artefacts. Artefacts affected the morphometric data (size, height, aspect ratio ranges and distributions), so their neglection was necessary for accurate morphometry. As this required a cumbersome and time-consuming manual search through all AFM images, we developed a computer program that facilitates the individual observation of each particle, enables manual shape identification and exports the resulting size and shape distribution from each AFM image. Since manual EV categorisation in the program still required significant time and proved to be quite subjective, we also employed machine learning for vesicle and shape recognition. A convolution neural network model was trained on a dataset of particles, for which 4 independent researchers provided consistent shape categorisations (F1 score of 85 ± 5%) and was successfully used to compare the 24 methods of preparation. Our analysis indicated that fixation had a very important role in both capturing and protection of EVs on a mica-based substrate, while critical point drying performed much better in retaining their morphology than hexamethyldisilazane. All tested functionalisations enabled good capture and visualisation of EVs, but (3-aminopropyl)triethoxysilane could cause flattening of EVs and NiCl2 was more prone to formation of round artefacts during direct air-drying. Generally, ethanol gradient dehydration followed by critical point drying best preserved the EV morphology, while chemical dehydration with dimethoxypropane resulted in well-balanced shape distributions with lower aspect ratios. The highest aspect ratios were obtained by ethanol dehydration and critical point drying on NiCl2-coated mica, for which all morphometric data agreed very well with the near-native EV morphology observed in liquid AFM images on the same type of substrate. These findings represent a promising first step towards utilising AFM images of EVs for diagnostic purposes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/48f9f8dfc0562c3dc2dea729bdadffce7d1d82d7" target='_blank'>Automated morphological classification and quantification of cerebrospinal fluid extracellular vesicles via AFM and machine learning</a></td>
          <td>
            Mario Kurtjak, Vera Tomas, Leon Ivović, David Fabijan, Marko Perčić, Hrvoje Križan, Marin Tota, Lara Saftić Martinović, Janja Tarčuković, Ivan Štajduhar, Mladenka Malenica
          </td>
          <td>2025-10-21</td>
          <td>Nanoscale Advances</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory condition triggered by immune system malfunction. Mitochondrial extracellular vesicles (MitoEVs) are a group of highly heterogeneous extracellular vesicles (EVs) enriched in mitochondrial fractions. The objective of this research was to examine the correlation between MitoEVs and the immune microenvironment of periodontitis. Data from MitoCarta 3.0, GeneCards, and GEO databases were utilized to identify differentially expressed MitoEV-related genes (MERGs) and conduct functional enrichment and pathway analyses. The random forest and LASSO algorithms were employed to identify hub MERGs. Infiltration levels of immune cells in periodontitis and healthy groups were estimated using the CIBERSORT algorithm, and phenotypic subgroups of periodontitis based on hub MERG expression levels were explored using a consensus clustering method. A total of 44 differentially expressed MERGs were identified. The random forest and LASSO algorithms identified 9 hub MERGs (BCL2L11, GLDC, CYP24A1, COQ2, MTPAP, NIPSNAP3A, FAM162A, MYO19, and NDUFS1). ROC curve analysis showed that the hub gene and logistic regression model presented excellent diagnostic and discriminating abilities. Immune infiltration and consensus clustering analysis indicated that hub MERGs were highly correlated with various types of immune cells, and there were significant differences in immune cells and hub MERGs among different periodontitis subtypes. The periodontitis classification model based on MERGs shows excellent performance and can offer novel perspectives into the pathogenesis of periodontitis. The high correlation between MERGs and various immune cells and the significant differences between immune cells and MERGs in different periodontitis subtypes can clarify the regulatory roles of MitoEVs in the immune microenvironment of periodontitis. Future research should focus on elucidating the functional mechanisms of hub MERGs and exploring potential therapeutic interventions based on these findings.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/83a5ce1bd967b96df66a24d509b4067b0a28b43b" target='_blank'>Exploring the potential link between MitoEVs and the immune microenvironment of periodontitis based on machine learning and bioinformatics methods</a></td>
          <td>
            Haoran Yang, Anna Zhao, Yuxiang Chen, Tingting Cheng, Jianzhong Zhou, Ziliang Li
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-02</td>
          <td>BMC Oral Health</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>2</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are membranous structures released by cells into the extracellular space and are thought to be involved in cell-to-cell communication. While EVs and their cargo are promising biomarker candidates, protein sorting mechanisms of proteins to EVs remain unclear. In this study, we ask if it is possible to determine EV association based on the protein sequence. Additionally, we ask what the most important determinants are for EV association. We answer these questions with explainable AI models, using human proteome data from EV databases to train and validate the model. It is essential to correct the datasets for contaminants introduced by coarse EV isolation workflows and for experimental bias caused by mass spectrometry. In this study, we show that it is indeed possible to predict EV association from the protein sequence: a simple sequence-based model for predicting EV proteins achieved an area under the curve of 0.77±0.01, which increased further to 0.84±0.00 when incorporating curated post-translational modification (PTM) annotations. Feature analysis shows that EV associated proteins are stable, polar, and structured with low isoelectric point compared to non-EV proteins. PTM annotations emerged as the most important features for correct classification; specifically palmitoylation is one of the most prevalent EV sorting mechanisms for unique proteins. Palmitoylation and nitrosylation sites are especially prevalent in EV proteins that are determined by very strict isolation protocols, indicating they could potentially serve as quality control criteria for future studies. This computational study offers an effective sequence-based predictor of EV associated proteins with extensive characterisation of the human EV proteome that can explain for individual proteins which factors contribute to their EV association.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c1596f82dd4bad7e1fdd49c48a0ba6de8e5defd3" target='_blank'>Proteome encoded determinants of protein sorting into extracellular vesicles</a></td>
          <td>
            Katharina Waury, Dea Gogishvili, R. Nieuwland, M. Chatterjee, C. Teunissen, Sanne Abeln
          </td>
          <td>2023-02-03</td>
          <td>Journal of Extracellular Biology</td>
          <td>14</td>
          <td>85</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Exosomes are a class of extracellular vesicles that are secreted by various cell types. Unlike other extracellular vesicles (ectosomes and apoptotic blebs), exosomes are of endocytic origin. The roles of exosomes in vaccine/drug delivery, intercellular communication and as a possible source of disease biomarkers have sparked immense interest in them, resulting in a plethora of studies. Whilst multidimensional datasets are continuously generated, it is difficult to harness the true potential of the data until they are compiled and made accessible to the biomedical researchers. Here, we describe ExoCarta (http://www.exocarta.org), a manually curated database of exosomal proteins, RNA and lipids. Datasets currently present in ExoCarta are integrated from both published and unpublished exosomal studies. Since its launch in 2009, ExoCarta has been accessed by more than 16,000 unique users. In this article, we discuss the utility of ExoCarta for exosomal research and urge biomedical researchers in the field to deposit their datasets directly to ExoCarta.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/daaf9dae9fa205c61aeed97bd4eb4e92cfd86e31" target='_blank'>ExoCarta as a resource for exosomal research</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Simpson, Hina Kalra, S. Mathivanan
          </td>
          <td>2012-01-01</td>
          <td>Journal of Extracellular Vesicles</td>
          <td>355</td>
          <td>91</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are a type of cell-released phospholipid bilayer nanoscale carrier. However, research on EVs encounters several challenges, such as their heterogeneity, the complexities associated with their isolation and identification, the necessity for engineering optimization, and the limitations in exploring their mechanisms. The advancement of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies offers new opportunities for EV research. Here, the definition and brief history of AI, as well as types and common models of machine learning, are first introduced, and the interactions between AI, machine learning, and deep learning are explored. The article then discusses in detail a variety of applications of AI in EV research, including the use of AI for target identification and selective delivery of EVs, the design and optimization of drug delivery systems, the mapping of cellular communication networks, the analysis of multi-omics data, and synthetic biology-based research on EVs. These applications demonstrate the potential of AI in advancing EV research and applications. Finally, we offer an outlook on the major challenges and future prospects of AI. Overall, the introduction of AI technologies has provided new perspectives and tools for the study of EVs, which is expected to enhance the application of EVs in disease diagnosis and treatment.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a29588fcab491133c91dbf71cb23f8a3a2002617" target='_blank'>Harnessing artificial intelligence for engineering extracellular vesicles</a></td>
          <td>
            Hui Lu, Jin Zhang, Tianzhuo Shen, Wenbing Jiang, Han Liu, Jiachan Su
          </td>
          <td>2025-09-02</td>
          <td>Extracellular Vesicles and Circulating Nucleic Acids</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>