---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2026-05-25 12:20:28 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Rebalancing Viral and Immune Damage versus Tissue Repair Prevents Death from Lethal Influenza Infection</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted a need for improved frameworks for drug discovery, repurposing, clinical trial design and therapy optimization and personalization. Mechanistic computational models can play an important role in developing these frameworks. We discuss how mechanistic models, which consider viral entry, replication in target cells, viral spread in the body, immune response, and the complex factors involved in tissue and organ damage and recovery, can clarify the mechanisms of humoral and cellular immune responses to the virus, viral distribution and replication in tissues, the origins of pathogenesis and patient-to-patient heterogeneity in responses. These models are already improving our understanding of the mechanisms of action of antivirals and immune modulators. We discuss how closer collaboration between the experimentalists, clinicians and modelers could result in more predictive models which may guide therapies for viral infections, improving survival and leading to faster and more complete recovery.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/70711f11bc10a8fa135753ca65ad8d883abe61db" target='_blank'>Advancing therapies for viral infections using mechanistic computational models of the dynamic interplay between the virus and host immune response</a></td>
          <td>
            V. Zarnitsyna, J. F. Gianlupi, A. Hagar, T. Sego, J. Glazier
          </td>
          <td>2021-08-24</td>
          <td>Current Opinion in Virology</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>51</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Virologists have long known that viral pathogenesis must be studied from the standpoint of both the virus and the host. Nevertheless, given its relative simplicity, studying the virus has always been more tractable. As outlined in the previous chapters, virus-centric approaches have yielded a tremendous amount of information about viral genetics, viral replication cycles, and host and tissue tropisms. Along the way have come insights into host innate and adaptive immune responses and the many ways in which viruses antagonize these responses while exploiting other cellular processes to their advantage. The sequencing of the human genome, however, dramatically changed the field of viral pathogenesis. Virologists are now able to move beyond virus-centric or single-gene approaches and instead investigate the host response to infection on a genome-wide scale. In this chapter, we focus on the insights into viral pathogenesis that are provided by examining the host transcriptional response, including the dynamics of innate and acquired immunity, diagnostic signatures, and the identification of targets for antiviral drugs.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/71e096ebd7370fb9e33e17eeb039e8d87258842d" target='_blank'>Systems Virology</a></td>
          <td>
            M. J. Korth, G. L. Law
          </td>
          <td>2016-02-12</td>
          <td>Viral Pathogenesis</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>37</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Respiratory viruses present major health challenges, as evidenced by the 2009 influenza pandemic and the ongoing severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic. Severe RNA virus respiratory infections often correlate with high viral load and excessive inflammation. Understanding the dynamics of the innate immune response and its manifestation at the cell and tissue levels are vital to understanding the mechanisms of immunopathology and developing improved, strain independent treatments. Here, we present a novel spatialized multicellular spatial computational model of two principal components of tissue infection and response: RNA virus replication and type-I interferon mediated antiviral response to infection within lung epithelial cells. The model is parameterized using data from influenza virus infected cell cultures and, consistent with experimental observations, exhibits either linear radial growth of viral plaques or arrested plaque growth depending on the local concentration of type I interferons. Modulating the phosphorylation of STAT or altering the ratio of the diffusion constants of interferon and virus in the cell culture could lead to plaque growth arrest. The dependence of arrest on diffusion constants highlights the importance of developing validated spatial models of cytokine signaling and the need for in vitro experiments to measure these diffusion constants. Sensitivity analyses were performed under conditions creating both continuous plaque growth and arrested plaque growth. Findings suggest that plaque growth and cytokine assay measurements should be collected during arrested plaque growth, as the model parameters are significantly more sensitive and more likely to be identifiable. The model’s metrics replicate experimental immunostaining imaging and titer based sampling assays. The model is easy to extend to include SARS-CoV-2-specific mechanisms as they are discovered or to include as a component linking epithelial cell signaling to systemic immune models. Author Summary COVID-19 is possibly the defining healthcare crisis of the current generation, with tens of millions of global cases and more than a million reported deaths. Respiratory lung infections form lesions in the lungs, whose number and size correlate with severity of illness. In some severe cases, the disease triggers a severe inflammatory condition known as cytokine storm. Given the complexity of the immune system, computational modeling is needed to link molecular signaling at the site of inflection to the signaling impact on the overall immune system, ultimately revealing how severe inflammatory conditions may emerge. Here, we created a computational model of the early stages of infection that simulates lung cells infected with RNA viruses, such those responsible for COVID-19 and influenza, to help explore how the disease forms viral plaques, an in vitro analog to lesion growth in the lung. Our model recapitulates in vitro observations that pretreatment of biological signaling molecules called with type-I interferons, which are currently being evaluated for treatment of COVID-19. Analyzing the model, we, can stop viral plaque growth. We found that enhancing certain aspects of the innate immune system, such as the JAK/STAT pathway, may be able to stop viral plaque growth, suggesting molecules involved in this pathway as possible drug candidates. Quantifying the parameters needed to model interferon signaling and viral replication, experiments should be performed under conditions that inhibit viral growth, such as pretreating cells with interferon. We present a computational framework that is essential to constructing larger models of respiratory infection induced immune responses, can be used to evaluate drugs and other medical interventions quickly, cheaply, and without the need for animal testing during the initial phase, and that defines experiments needed to improve our fundamental understanding of the mechanisms regulating the immune response.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/afbec26a5cdf60962de2faad5464a72152c1c8fc" target='_blank'>Multicellular spatial model of RNA virus replication and interferon responses reveals factors controlling plaque growth dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Josua O. Aponte-Serrano, J. Weaver, T. Sego, J. Glazier, J. Shoemaker
          </td>
          <td>2021-03-16</td>
          <td>PLoS Computational Biology</td>
          <td>15</td>
          <td>51</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Anti-TNF drugs are frequently associated with serious Adverse Events (AEs), which necessitates an improved understanding of individual factors that determine efficacy and safety of anti-TNF agents. We mined the US FDA’s Adverse Event Reporting System (AERS) for anti-TNF-associated AEs to identify and stratify patient subgroups and drug combinations that exhibit specifically correlated complications. We demonstrate the existence of patient subgroup and anti-TNF agent-specific associations for relative risks of developing known and novel AEs including infections, edema, and organ damage associated processes. Concomitant use of anti-TNFs with corticosteroids significantly increased risk of AEs (p < 0.001) including pulmonary fibrosis and pulmonary edema. Using these tightly correlated phenotypes, we mined mouse phenotype data to identify the molecular basis of these AEs. Multiple pathways and networks that regulate injury response, fluid regulation, and wound healing were implicated suggesting modification of anti-TNF-based therapeutic strategies to minimize corticosteroid-based combinatorial risk of severe AEs.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/543f0f1202d7709a6b6282f97da37faf186516ad" target='_blank'>Using Systems Biology-based Analysis Approaches to Identify Mechanistically Significant Adverse Drug Reactions: Pulmonary Complications from Combined Use of Anti-TNFα Agents and Corticosteroids</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Sarangdhar, Akash Kushwaha, Jeanine E Dahlquist, A. Jegga, B. Aronow
          </td>
          <td>2013-03-18</td>
          <td>AMIA Summits on Translational Science Proceedings</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>93</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Viruses are a constant threat to global health as highlighted by the current COVID-19 pandemic. Currently, lack of data underlying how the human host interacts with viruses, including the SARS-CoV-2 virus, limits effective therapeutic intervention. We introduce Viral-Track, a computational method that globally scans unmapped single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data for the presence of viral RNA, enabling transcriptional cell sorting of infected versus bystander cells. We demonstrate the sensitivity and specificity of Viral-Track to systematically detect viruses from multiple models of infection, including hepatitis B virus, in an unsupervised manner. Applying Viral-Track to bronchoalveloar-lavage samples from severe and mild COVID-19 patients reveals a dramatic impact of the virus on the immune system of severe patients compared to mild cases. Viral-Track detects an unexpected co-infection of the human metapneumovirus, present mainly in monocytes perturbed in type-I interferon (IFN)-signaling. Viral-Track provides a robust technology for dissecting the mechanisms of viral-infection and pathology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e0c45240450f614dab426bf68728c0eabd2dfcea" target='_blank'>Host-Viral Infection Maps Reveal Signatures of Severe COVID-19 Patients</a></td>
          <td>
            Pierre Bost, A. Giladi, Yang Liu, Yanis Bendjelal, Gang Xu, Eyal David, R. Blecher-Gonen, Merav Cohen, Chiara Medaglia, Hanjie Li, A. Deczkowska, Shuye Zhang, Benno Schwikowski, Zheng Zhang, I. Amit
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-08</td>
          <td>Cell</td>
          <td>444</td>
          <td>107</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We and others have reported evidence of T cell exhaustion in children with perinatal HIV with increased expression of inhibitory receptors PD-1, CD160, and TIM-3, but there is limited data on the virologic functional consequences of this immune exhaustion. We address this by using an immune database from Kenyan children with perinatal HIV and unexposed controls. We computationally integrate T cell profiles of differentiation, activation and exhaustion in an agent-based model (ABM) to predict how T cell exhaustion impacts viral control following HIV exposure in vitro. Our ABM includes macrophages, CD4 and CD8 T cells, cytokines, and HIV. Model mechanisms include viral dynamics, macrophage activation, T cell activation and proliferation, cytotoxic T cell killing, and cytokine/HIV diffusion and degradation. Participants are grouped by HIV plasma viremia and by age, less than 5 years or 5-18 years. Our findings indicate that cells from virally active participants, who have the highest levels of exhaustion, have lower predicted viral concentrations and infected cells compared to other participant groups during new infection. However, this coincides with higher cell death, suggesting that short-term viral control is associated with excessive inflammation, which could be detrimental long-term. Cells from virally suppressed participants older than 5 years can maintain lower viral concentrations while limiting cell death, reflecting a more sustainable short-term immune response. In virally suppressed children younger than 5 years, immune response patterns strongly resemble the age-matched healthy control group, suggesting early viral suppression may preserve antiviral immune responses. Our model predicts unique patterns of cell death for each participant group, with CD8 T cell death being dominant in virally active groups and CD4 T cell and macrophage death being dominant in healthy and virally suppressed groups. Finally, exhausted CD8 T cells are predicted to contribute significantly to CD8 T cell killing, proliferation, and activation in the virally active group, indicating partially functional CD8 T cells can still contribute to short-term viral control. Our analysis functionally integrates participant-specific immunophenotypic data to allow quantification of the extent, mechanisms, and impact of immune dysfunction in perinatal HIV and could inform pediatric HIV remission and cure strategies. Author Summary Cytotoxic CD8+ T cells are vital for our ability to kill infected cells. However, chronic stimulation of CD8+ T cells can result in T cell exhaustion, leading to cellular dysfunction and reduced ability to fight infections. Here we ask: What impact does CD8+ T cell exhaustion have on the ability to control HIV replication over the short term? We answer this using a computational model, anchored in experimental data from children with perinatal HIV. We use participant-specific data on dozens of immune markers that characterize the state of their immune system. We carefully map these markers to known immune cell functions and use our model to predict how immune cells with these participant-specific markers would respond to HIV infection. Our results suggest that earlier viral suppression can lead to better immune function in children with perinatal HIV. Our findings also suggest that exhausted CD8+ T cells could still contribute to fighting HIV infection, but only if there are enough of them to compensate for their reduced functionality. Our work uses computational models to put valuable participant-specific data into context, allowing us to predict short-term infection outcomes and better understand immune function in children with perinatal HIV.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/feef85b43caeefacd242e0fed705966cf8ef6533" target='_blank'>Partially-functional exhausted CD8+ T cells can contribute to short-term viral suppression: a computational prediction for children with perinatal HIV</a></td>
          <td>
            Alexis Hoerter, Alexa Petrucciani, Fatma Marshed, Mussa Mwamzuka, A. Ahmed, Alka Khaitan, Elsje Pienaar
          </td>
          <td>2025-09-20</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The CD8+ T cell response is critical to the control of viral infections. Yet, defining the CD8+ T cell response to viral infections quantitatively has been a challenge. Following antigen recognition, which triggers an intracellular signaling cascade, CD8+ T cells can differentiate into effector cells, which proliferate rapidly and destroy infected cells. When the infection is cleared, they leave behind memory cells for quick recall following a second challenge. If the infection persists, the cells may become exhausted, retaining minimal control of the infection while preventing severe immunopathology. These activation, proliferation and differentiation processes as well as the mounting of the effector response are intrinsically multiscale and collective phenomena. Remarkable experimental advances in the recent years, especially at the single cell level, have enabled a quantitative characterization of several underlying processes. Simultaneously, sophisticated mathematical models have begun to be constructed that describe these multiscale phenomena, bringing us closer to a comprehensive description of the CD8+ T cell response to viral infections. Here, we review the advances made and summarize the challenges and opportunities ahead.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/547f5fa7301461a361c20720a55c2e4aa8e5c69a" target='_blank'>Towards multiscale modelling of the CD8+ T cell response to viral infections</a></td>
          <td>
            Subhasish Baral, Rubesh Raja, Pramita Sen, N. Dixit
          </td>
          <td>2019-02-27</td>
          <td>Wiley interdisciplinary reviews. Systems biology and medicine</td>
          <td>20</td>
          <td>29</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Illness negatively affects all aspects of life and one major cause of illness is viral infections. Some viral infections can last for weeks; others, like influenza (the flu), can resolve quickly. During infections, uninfected cells can replicate in order to replenish the cells that have died due to the virus. Many viral models, especially those for short-lived infections like influenza, tend to ignore cellular regeneration since many think that uncomplicated influenza resolves much faster than cells regenerate. This research accounts for cellular regeneration, using an agent-based framework, and varies the regeneration rate in order to understand how cell regeneration affects viral infection dynamics under assumptions of different modes of transmission. We find that although the general trends in peak viral load, time of viral peak, and chronic viral load as regeneration rate changes are the same for cell-free or cell-to-cell transmission, the changes are more extreme for cell-to-cell transmission due to limited access of infected cells to newly generated cells.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e83b10e283af339370f13fda6871d2a6d2093d40" target='_blank'>Effect of cellular regeneration and viral transmission mode on viral spread.</a></td>
          <td>
            Asher Haun, B. Fain, H. Dobrovolny
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-01</td>
          <td>Journal of theoretical biology</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted our lives in ways that go beyond the immediate health dangers. Some of these could have been predicted and are likely to be temporary. Others may have lasting effects on society.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6c7f1b044e8f7fb87b6f9992e653dc0292d08e06" target='_blank'>Editorial</a></td>
          <td>
            Steve Mansfield-Devine
          </td>
          <td>2020-04-01</td>
          <td>Computer Fraud & Security</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The COVID-19 pandemic significantly transformed the field of mathematical modeling in immunology. International collaboration among numerous research groups yielded a substantial amount of experimental data, which greatly facilitated model validation and led to the development of new mathematical models. The aim of the study is an improvement of system understanding of the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection based on the development of a modular mathematical model which provides a foundation for further research on host-pathogen interactions. We utilized the open-source BioUML platform to develop a model using ordinary, delay and stochastic differential equations. The model was validated using experimental data from middle-aged individuals with moderate COVID-19 progression, including measurements of viral load, antibodies, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and interleukin-6 levels. Parameter optimization and sensitivity analysis were conducted to refine the model’s accuracy. The model effectively reproduces moderate, severe, and critical COVID-19 progressions, consistent with experimental observations. We investigated the efficiency and contributions of innate and adaptive immunity in response to SARS-CoV-2 infection and assessed immune system behavior during co-infection with HIV and organ transplantation. Additionally, we studied therapy methods, such as interferon administration. The developed model can be employed as a framework for simulating other infectious diseases taking into account follow-up immune response. Author summary Despite the significant progress reached in understanding of COVID-19, traditional methods still struggle to analyze and interpret the extensive and sometimes controversial experimental data on SARS-CoV-2 infection. Mathematical and systems biology approaches attempt to address this challenge by developing mathematical models of the immune response. We aimed not only to investigate the disease at a systemic level but also to provide a framework for further research on host-pathogen interactions, both existing and forthcoming. To achieve this, we constructed a model incorporating both innate and adaptive immunity, as well as cellular and humoral components. This together allowed us to conduct a series of in silico experiments, exploring the immune response across various levels and compartments. The results of these investigations offer valuable insights into the complex dynamics of the immune system and can guide future research and therapeutic strategies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/fba63039c2028ccefcb6ba1155b931e933bffd6f" target='_blank'>A modular model of immune response as a computational platform to investigate a pathogenesis of infection disease</a></td>
          <td>
            M.I. Miroshnichenko, F. Kolpakov, I. Akberdin
          </td>
          <td>2024-10-01</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>