---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2026-05-04 10:57:49 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Myeloid progenitor dysregulation fuels immunosuppressive macrophages in tumors</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Tumor‐associated macrophages (TAMs) are a vital immune component within the tumor microenvironment (TME) of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), exerting significant influence on tumor growth, metastasis, and drug resistance. N6‐methyladenosine (m6A) modifications regulate gene expression and various facets of cancer biology; nonetheless, the mechanisms by which they modulate gene expression in TAMs and their impact on LUAD progression remain inadequately elucidated. Single‐cell transcriptome analysis identified the macrophage m6A‐related genes (MMRGs) with high expression in TAMs and linked to m6A modifications in LUAD. The MMRGs were employed to construct 801 prognostic models by 13 different machine learning (ML) algorithms. An integrative multi‐omics approach was utilized to analyze the potential biological functions of MMRGs. Five ML algorithms were employed to discover potential biomarkers for patient stratification and precision therapy. Potential drugs for treating LUAD were identified and assessed by molecular docking and molecular dynamics, and ML was employed to determine the most promising candidates. Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence staining were conducted to assess MMRG expression in LUAD tissues. Seventeen MMRGs were identified in LUAD and subsequently employed to construct a prognostic model for patient stratification into high‐risk and low‐risk groups. The impact of MMRG expression on various tumor immune phenotypes, such as tumor stemness, heterogeneity, hallmark pathway enrichment, TAM infiltration, and immune landscape, was thoroughly characterized. PIM3, HMGB2, DUSP2, NR4A2, and others were recognized as promising biomarkers for patient classification and precision therapy. Furthermore, it was predicted that drugs such as BRD9876 and MK‐1775 would demonstrate therapeutic efficacy in treating LUAD, and drugs showing potential binding with DUSP2, ZNF331, FLT, and LYZ were identified. Finally, experimental validation was conducted to confirm the protein expression and distribution of DUSP2 and NR4A2 in tissues of LUAD. Our study offers valuable insights into the biological significance of MMRGs, shedding light on novel mechanisms of tumor development and immune evasion in LUAD. Furthermore, our findings have identified potential biomarkers, drug candidates, and therapeutic targets that may improve the management of LUAD in the future.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8ae46da9569e5c6c4bf7aeb7e8d86c57f59f25b2" target='_blank'>Characterization of m6A‐Related Genes in Tumor‐Associated Macrophages for Prognosis, Immunotherapy, and Drug Prediction in Lung Adenocarcinomas Based on Machine Learning Algorithms</a></td>
          <td>
            Mengmeng Sang, Qinhua Huang, Mimi Mao, Haoming Yan, Jia Ge, Rui Zhang, Wenhao Ju, Xiaorong Zhou
          </td>
          <td>2025-06-05</td>
          <td>The FASEB Journal</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>5</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Background Lipid metabolism pivotally contributes to the incidence and development of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). The interaction of lipid metabolism and tumor microenvironment (TME) has become a new research direction. Methods Using the 1107 LUAD records from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases, a comprehensive exploration was performed on the heterogeneous lipid metabolism subtypes based on lipid metabolism genes (LMGs) and immune-related genes (LRGs). The clinical significance, functional status, TME interaction and genomic changes of different subtypes were further studied. A new scoring system, lipid-immune score (LIS), was developed and validated. Results Two heterogeneous subtypes, which express more LMGs and show the characteristics of tumor metabolism and proliferation, are defined as lipid metabolism phenotypes. The prognosis of lipid metabolism phenotype is poor, and it is more common in patients with tumor progression. Expressing more IRGs, enrichment of immunoactive pathways and infiltration of effector immune cells are defined as immunoactive phenotypes. The immunoactive phenotype has a better prognosis and stronger anti-tumor immunity and is more sensitive to immunotherapy. In addition, KEAP1 is a driving mutant gene in the lipid metabolism subtype. Finally, LIS was developed and confirmed to be a robust predictor of overall survival (OS) and immunotherapy in LUAD patients. Conclusion Two heterogeneous subtypes of LUAD (lipid metabolism subtype and immune activity subtype) were identified to evaluate prognosis and immunotherapy sensitivity. Our research promotes the understanding of the interaction between lipid metabolism and TME and offers a novel direction for clinical management and precision therapy aimed to LUAD patients.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9a048b2a423976a05680233fce270b75a4d63680" target='_blank'>Machine learning reveals two heterogeneous subtypes to assist immune therapy based on lipid metabolism in lung adenocarcinoma</a></td>
          <td>
            Xuyu Gu, Shiyou Wei, Zhixin Li, Huan Xu
          </td>
          <td>2022-09-27</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Immunology</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Background. Oxidative stress produced a large amount of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which played a pivotal role in balanced ability and determining cell fate. The activated Nrf2 signaling pathway that responds to the excessive ROS regulated the expressions of antiapoptotic proteins, antioxidative enzymes, drug transporters, and detoxifying factors. Methods. The Nrf2 signaling pathway‐related genes that had a direct relationship with Nrf2, including ATF4, BACH1, CREBBP, CUL3, EIF2AK3, EP300, FOS, FOSL1, GSK3B, JUN, KEAP1, MAF, MAFF, MAFG, MAFK, MAPK1, MAPK3, MAPK7, MAPK8, MAPK9, PIK3CA, PRRT2, and RIT1, were selected to do a systematic pan‐cancer analysis. The relationship of Nrf2 signaling pathway‐related gene expressions with tumor mutation burden, microsatellite status, clinical characteristics, immune system, cancer stemness index, and drug sensitivity was calculated by the Spearson correlation analysis across 11,057 subjects representing 33 cancer types. The prognosis models in lung squamous carcinoma, breast cancer, and stomach cancer were constructed with the Cox multivariate regression analysis and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (Lasso) regression. Results. Many Nrf2 signaling pathway‐related genes were differently expressed between tumor and normal tissues. PIK3CA showed high mutation rate in pan‐cancer. The expressions of Nrf2 signaling pathway‐related genes were significantly related to tumor mutation burden, copy number variant, microsatellite instability score, survival rate, pathological stage, immune phenotype, immune score, immune cell, cancer stemness index, and drug sensitivity. The prognosis models were significantly associated with survival rate in lung squamous carcinoma, breast cancer, and stomach cancer; and the prognosis model‐based riskscore was significantly associated with clinicopathological characteristics of each cancer. Conclusions. The study provided a comprehensive pan‐cancer landscape of Nrf2 pathway‐related genes. Based on the same Nrf2 pathway‐related genes, the different prognosis models were constructed for different types of cancers.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f669554773bb9462b3832af67f1a540ed0019a25" target='_blank'>Machine Learning Identifies Pan-Cancer Landscape of Nrf2 Oxidative Stress Response Pathway-Related Genes</a></td>
          <td>
            Na Li, X. Zhan
          </td>
          <td>2022-02-17</td>
          <td>Oxidative Medicine and Cellular Longevity</td>
          <td>15</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Graphical abstract">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1831b820faa617bad051fddf25c5f42afc8f9050" target='_blank'>Discovery of tumor immune infiltration-related snoRNAs for predicting tumor immune microenvironment status and prognosis in lung adenocarcinoma</a></td>
          <td>
            Rongjun Wan, L. Bai, Changjing Cai, Wang Ya, Juan Jiang, Chengping Hu, Qiong Chen, Bingrong Zhao, Yuanyuan Li
          </td>
          <td>2021-11-01</td>
          <td>Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="ABSTRACT Non-small cell lung cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer-related death in the world. Lung adenocarcinoma, the most common type of non-small cell lung cancer, has been well characterized as having a dense lymphocytic infiltrate, suggesting that the immune system plays an active role in shaping this cancer's growth and development. Despite these findings, our understanding of how this infiltrate affects patient prognosis and its association with lung adenocarcinoma-specific clinical factors remains limited. To address these questions, we inferred the infiltration level of six distinct immune cell types from a series of four lung adenocarcinoma gene expression datasets. We found that naive B cell, CD8+ T cell, and myeloid cell-derived expression signals of immune infiltration were significantly predictive of patient survival in multiple independent datasets, with B cell and CD8+ T cell infiltration associated with prolonged prognosis and myeloid cell infiltration associated with shorter survival. These associations remained significant even after accounting for additional clinical variables. Patients stratified by smoking status exhibited decreased CD8+ T cell infiltration and altered prognostic associations, suggesting potential immunosuppressive mechanisms in smokers. Survival analyses accounting for immune checkpoint gene expression and cellular immune infiltrate indicated checkpoint protein-specific modulatory effects on CD8+ T cell and B cell function that may be associated with patient sensitivity to immunotherapy. Together, these analyses identified reproducible associations that can be used to better characterize the role of immune infiltration in lung adenocarcinoma and demonstrate the utility in using computational approaches to systematically characterize tissue-specific tumor-immune interactions.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/36f31433e71319d79734506ea0ea2a773252885f" target='_blank'>Computational immune profiling in lung adenocarcinoma reveals reproducible prognostic associations with implications for immunotherapy</a></td>
          <td>
            F. Varn, L. Tafe, C. Amos, Chao Cheng
          </td>
          <td>2018-02-01</td>
          <td>Oncoimmunology</td>
          <td>46</td>
          <td>114</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="CD8+ T cells differentiate into diverse states that shape immune outcomes in cancer and chronic infection1–4. To systematically define the transcription factors (TFs) driving these states, we built a comprehensive atlas integrating transcriptional and epigenetic data across nine CD8+ T cell states and inferred TF activity profiles. Our analysis catalogued TF activity fingerprints, uncovering regulatory mechanisms governing selective cell state differentiation. Leveraging this platform, we focused on two transcriptionally similar but functionally opposing states critical in tumor and viral contexts: terminally exhausted T cells (TEXterm), which are dysfunctional5–8, and tissue-resident memory T cells (TRM), which are protective9–13. Global TF community analysis revealed distinct biological pathways and TF-driven networks underlying protective versus dysfunctional states. Through in vivo CRISPR screening integrated with single-cell RNA sequencing (in vivo Perturb-seq), we delineated several TFs that selectively govern TEXterm differentiation. We also identified HIC1 and GFI1 as shared regulators of TEXterm and TRM differentiation and KLF6 as a unique regulator of TRM. Importantly, we discovered novel TEXterm- selective TFs, including ZSCAN20 and JDP2, with no prior known function in T cells. Targeted deletion of these TFs enhanced tumor control and synergized with immune checkpoint blockade but did not interfere with TRM formation. Consistently, their depletion in human T cells reduces the expression of inhibitory receptors and improves effector function. By decoupling exhaustion TEX-selective from protective TRM programs, our platform enables more precise engineering of T cell states, accelerating the rational design of more effective cellular immunotherapies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b9a19111438e333b621481c8a1b26d28530f6654" target='_blank'>Atlas-guided discovery of transcription factors for T cell programming</a></td>
          <td>
            H. K. Chung, Cong Liu, Eduardo Casillas, Bryan McDonald, Jun Wang, Ming-Chen Sun, Shixin Ma, Brent Chick, Qiyuan Yang, Dan Chen, F. Hoffmann, S. K. Varanasi, V. Tripple, Yuqing Hang, Ukrae H. Cho, J. Ho, April E. Williams, D. Hargreaves, S. Kaech, W. Wang
          </td>
          <td>2023-01-13</td>
          <td>Nature</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>88</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Graphical abstract">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/06fa901027681eacec7ece647736f51dfea2e99c" target='_blank'>Systems biology analysis identifies TNFRSF9 as a functional marker of tumor-infiltrating regulatory T-cell enabling clinical outcome prediction in lung cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            Jae-Won Cho, Jimin Son, S. Ha, Insuk Lee
          </td>
          <td>2021-01-21</td>
          <td>Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Objective Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) continues to be a primary cause of cancer-related mortality globally, highlighting the urgent need for novel insights finto its molecular mechanisms. This study aims to investigate the relationship between gene expression and mitophagy in LUAD, with an emphasis on identifying key biomarkers and elucidating their roles in tumorigenesis and immune cell infiltration. Methods We utilized datasets GSE151101 and GSE203609 from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with lung cancer and mitophagy. DEGs were identified using GEO2R, filtered based on criteria of P < 0.05 and log2 fold change ≥ 1. Subsequently, Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) was conducted to classify DEGs into modules. Functional annotation of these modules was performed using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) was applied to the most relevant module, designated as the greenyellow module. To identify critical biomarkers, machine learning algorithms including Random Forest, Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression, and Support Vector Machine (SVM) were employed. Validation of the findings was conducted using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, Human Protein Atlas (HPA), quantitative PCR (qPCR), and immune cell infiltration analysis via CIBERSORTx. Results Our analysis identified 11,012 overlapping DEGs between the two datasets. WGCNA revealed 11 modules, with the green-yellow module exhibiting the highest correlation. Functional enrichment analysis highlighted significant associations with FOXM1 signaling pathways and retinoblastoma in cancer. Machine learning algorithms identified COASY, FTSJ1, and MOGS as pivotal genes. These findings were validated using TCGA data, qPCR experiments, which demonstrated high expression levels in LUAD samples. Immunohistochemistry from HPA confirmed consistency between protein levels and RNA-seq data. Furthermore, pan-cancer analysis indicated that these genes are highly expressed across various cancer types. Immune infiltration analysis suggested significant correlations between these genes and specific immune cell populations. Conclusion COASY, FTSJ1 and MOGS have emerged as critical biomarkers in LUAD, potentially influencing tumorigenesis through mitophagy-related mechanisms and immune modulation. These findings provide promising avenues for future research into targeted therapies and diagnostic tools, thereby enhancing LUAD management.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0972d886cd27d4f854b91feb85db4c65079f1fb5" target='_blank'>The role and machine learning analysis of mitochondrial autophagy-related gene expression in lung adenocarcinoma</a></td>
          <td>
            Binyu Wang, Di Liu, Danfei Shi, Xinmin Li, Yong Li
          </td>
          <td>2025-04-17</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Immunology</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>16</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>